It is 102. So hello everyone, welcome to today's panel. My name is Anal and I'm a program manager on the ecosystem team at the Stellar Development Foundation, which is a nonprofit organization founded in 2014 to support the development and growth of the open source Stellar network. So welcome everyone. So today I'm we are having a panel about how to succeed in the Stellar Community Fund. Now will we will talk about the Stellar Community Fund quite a bit and we will also refer to it as an AB abbreviation, SCF. So you'll be hearing that a lot. SCF stands for Stellar Community Fund and SDF stands for Stellar Development Foundation. So be sure to take note of that. but what is SCF? So the Stell Community Fund is an open application grant program hosted by SDF
That serves as the springboard for many businesses and Developers, for many businesses building an on Stellar to turn their Concepts into tangible products and services, and it's also where SDF is providing funding. But actually, the community allocates where the funding goes to. So, together with its predecessor, the Stellar Brill challenge, has been around actually since 2016. It's quite ancient in the blockchain industry and has distributed almost 200 million lumens to hundreds of Stellar based projects based on community input, including familiar names like StellarExpert, Lobstr, light Min and ancl, and a few names that you'll hear very soon. So if you ever looked at Grand space and `stellar.org` you see that we actually have many grants. But SCF is really quite special. Three reasons: all kinds of use cases and pro projects, scope sizes are
Welcome and the community is actively involved in guiding and supporting the projects, as well as voting for projects they want to see earn a grant. And SCF grants are no strings attached, so that means that Grant recipients decide how to spend their Grant and don't have to pay anything back. So it's quite special. How does SCF work? In short, it gives these, like you know, Community companies and Builders an opportunity to present Stellar based projects to the BR Stell Community for feedback and gives the BR Stellar Community an opportunity to give feedback and weigh in which projects to serve Lumen grants. We are doing it currently by anually on a Cadence on in the form of rounds. So each of these rounds are listed on `communityfund.stellar.org` they have a set pool of lumens allocated for distribution to winning projects of that round and they consist of a few phases that you see here.
Currently we're actually in the submission phase for the 11th edition of the Stell Community Fund and has a total pool of 8 million XLM to distribute. So that means that any eligible developer, team or company building on Stellar can submit now to the SCF and request funding up to 200k depending on their project scope. So, aside from funding, participating in the SCF allows you to gather useful feedback from a community, gain Traction in the ecosystem and open up a unique opportunities for growth. We're also having a very exciting startup bootcamp if you submit before September 25th. So definitely look into this. But to be considered for participation then really to you know, before your project reaches Community eyes, your project need to pass the selection panel
First, and this is no small feat. So last round, actually less than a third of submissions were selected to move forward and to learn how to set up your project for Success. Stay on to hear from leaders of Allstar pro project, winners of the previous Ed SCF rounds- Alfred pay, beans app, Leaf Global, fintech, Stellar Global and qued on how to set your project up for Success. So I talked a lot, but let's start with some introductions and we'll start with Alfred P, so take it away an thank you so much for having us. Just a little bit of intro on us. In Alfred pay, we participated in Stellar Community Fund number nine. We are fortunate to be one of the winners there. A little bit about us and what we do. We're currently an anchor on the network that processes USDC payouts into the Dominican Republic. Our ideas to scale
From there and also build the Dominican Republic stable coin as we scale our solution there and vertically. We also have the Alfred pay wallet, which is a user facing product, and we brand ourselves as a web 2 5 company because we use blockchain as the underlining Tech, but we provide a traditional payment experience so users are able to send USC by connecting their bank account with plaid, Apple pay or V Master cards and then, very much like the money gam integration. Our goal is start with that and we try to provide as many outlets into local currency as possible. So currently we're part of the largest ATM network on the ground in the Dominican Republic that allows you to withdraw in: over 800 ATMs on the ground. So USC for local Dominican pesos. Also over 150 brick and mortars- aside of the ones that money gram has, which I believe they have an additional 600 there- and, last but not least, door to
Door delivery, so door to door cash delivery in under two hours in exchange for USDC, which is something super powerful. And, yeah, last but not least, we're operational in the Dominican Republic, as I mentioned right now, and in quarter four of this year we're going to be launching our anchor in Haiti. Wow, that's really impressive. I can't believe like it's been a while since. I also heard from you, and every time I hear from you, it seems like you've like just done so many new developments and really making real change for people, so this is really exciting. Great. Well, thank you so much for being on board. Let's hear from beans app next. Great, yeah, thank you. My name is wter, founder of beans app, and beans app took part in the last SCF round on number 10, and beans is a non custodial wallet that enables anyone to send internationally at zero fee. So the problem we saw, as many people
Building on Stellar know- is that International payments are slow and expensive, and blockchain could solve that, but it's often very complicated for normal people. So what we've done is build a noncustodial app that removes all the crypto or blockchain things to the back end. So, as a user, that means you don't interact with private Keys, you don't interact with trust lines or any of that. So when you create your wallet, you choose your favorite currency, for example, dollars, and then if you want to send money to someone in I don't know, Argentina, that wants to receive peso, all you have to do is look them up. The app will know that they want to receive pesos and show you the right conversion, and all you have to do is type in how much you want to send, so you don't even have to think about the currency they want to receive, and that all with zero fees. So and the same you can do with requests, so you can request something and when someone pay, it will
Automatically convert into the right currency for them. So that's beans. So, basically, a global venmo is what we're trying to build here. Super excited to be part of this, so thanks. Yeah, I was also really excited when I heard that you, as you know long Community, longtime Community member, like finally like had a project and it was like super like. I really like this project, like it seems like it's a got a very it like this has been an existing problem, right, but really having like such a Innovative and like such a like really great design and great thinking about for the solution, I think that's what's really unique and yeah, so I'm very excited. All right, well, we'll hear more from you, but let's go. I want to hear now from Funto of
Quid. Fto, are you able? I think you need to unmute first. Okay, sorry about that. Hi everyone, fto barice, I'm out of Abuja, Nigeria. I'm excited to be here and part of we won in SCF round nine, and cryto is an online facturing platform that, where transactions are streamlined, where smes can get paid fast cas cash- what when they sell their invoices, and how we're leveraging Stellar platform or the blockchain is really to optimize the payment and financial transactions. And for us particularly, we're optimizing for quick, transparent and efficient invoicing financing for smes. We- the funding we got in the saf round nine- definitely helped us to build- we're still build- mode, but we've been able
To sort of make inroads. We pivoted a bit because we were focusing on smes before. Right now we're working, trying to work with vendors directly, just because of some of the issues with repayments and things like that, but excited to be here to answer any questions that anybody has. Awesome, yeah, no, it's exciting. I remember so quid was also like- participated in a 2021 bootcamp with the fs lab and you were also very early in development then and kind of seeing how much you've already grown right and it it's kind of unprecedented, almost for like a start up. Like I think it's really great work there. So, yeah, excited to hear more from your learnings as well. But we have two more introductions: Nat from Leaf Global fintech, take it away great thank you, and thank you all for having us. Leaf is a digital wallet that was designed initially for refugees
And migrants- people who are fleeing conflict and carrying cash across borders but may have a mobile phone, and so we've designed our wallets to work and help customers who have both smartphones or non smartphones we use a technology called USSD that's very prominent throughout Africa and East Africa, where customers can load funds onto our wallet and cross those borders safely without carrying cash. So we are live in Kenya, Uganda and Rwanda and looking to expand to more partners and more countries throughout Africa, but really have designed leave to be a global solution. We spent a lot of time in Colombia and helping and talking to Venezuelan migrants coming across the border and everyone facing the same challenge of carrying cash. Having a phone can't get a bank account, but I think can really benefit from these Services. I will say also that we launched NFT art sales program for some of our Refugee customers on Leaf to help them create and mints- NFTs on life mint-
And then sell those to the global community and then we would send those funds directly to their Leaf wallets. That's been a lot of fun and exciting to work on with Stellar. Yeah, no, thank you. And Leaf Global fex also been around for quite a bit, like I think it was the seventh round, right, this is already feels like ages ago. Yeah, you're Old Timers in this new industry. No, but I think it's really great and really cool to see such an Innovative use case as well. That's making real impact. So, yeah, no, looking forward to hearing from you more. And, last but not least, Sam from Stellar Global- take it away. Hey, Ana, hey everybody, great to see all these faces again. Yeah, so I'm Sam and I founded a community called Stellar Global, actually back man 2019, and so actually been doing it for a while, and really it was
Kind of birth out the notion that I always looked at Stellar as this incredible opportunity to Foster entrepreneurs and developers and really help to build economic prosperity and opportunities for a lot of people. And so, yeah, Stellar Globe has been great. We entered into the fund actually just last year, so I think this was what the 10th one, was it the 10th one, I'm wondering? Was it the 10th, 11th? I don't even know what number we were now. No, you were in the ninth, so it wasn't all right. Yeah, so it's been great. It's really allowed the ability to do a lot more onsite this past year: having a chance to speak at Davos and be a voice, also head to Washington DC where we helped to Advocate for Black and Latino developers and entrepreneurs that are building on chain, as well as several other things you know, doing podcast videos, engagement. So, yeah, we could
Talk a lot more in detail later on, but really glad to be here, awesome. Well, thank you, we're honored that you're here. Sam is definitely the most active Community member that we have, and even much more than that. Like you're also part of light Min now, right, yeah, another SDF winner as well. I got to meet Fred back in 2019 as well, and so it's been great. I on a strategic advisor for light mint and we're doing some great things, so really happy. Shout out to Fred, awesome. Yes, shout out to Fred if he's watching, hopefully. U well, you know, and that really leads us into the discussion, right, and so here, if you're here in the audience, if you're on Zoom, you have the chance as a an audience member, to ask questions to any of these panelists and I will be taking a look at the questions, the Q&A section here. So definitely add your questions and I will ask them if they're you know, if
They're relevant to the discussion. So let me stop sharing my screen and let's start in panel mode. So let's go into one of the first questions. So, for the like, for about 15 minutes, I really would like to know a little bit more about your experience, like coming into the SCF and how they, how you've grown since then. So, yeah, like you know, and this can be of any phase, like maybe the- you know, the submission, or like the community discussion, like what was your experience in the SCF? Anyone feel free to chip in, otherwise I'm going to assign someone. All right, Sam, since you have your microphone unmuted. Yeah, you know, for me it was great. So, you know, I started off, like I said, as a community member and I typically looked at the CF
Strictly from like a business, like okay, like look at the businesses that are joining in, but for myself, as Sanka mentioned, I was spending a lot of time just in doing things. And so what the SCF funds allowed, you know us to do was really from encouragment, one from the Community. They're like, hey, look, there's a lot more you know you could do. You know we're spending a lot of time involved in this. You know you definitely should reach out to it, and so getting involved was really great going through the process and, yeah, it's really allowed just for larger exposure, not just for Stellar Global but, you know, the entire Stellar ecosystem as a whole. I got to do a lot more traveling and really put that, I guess, the message and the mission of what Stellar is all about on the road and I think it helped to make a lot more impact and then also, you know, having those funds allowed me to free up my time. I wasn't working throughout the air kind of focus solely on this, and so it allowed
For a lot more Twitter spaces, a lot more, engagements, you know, speaking with leaders all across the world. So yeah it. I think it's helped there and we've seen just that sort of impact within the community members. I'm really happy the way Stellar Global itself has grown out. You know, from it. We've seen other businesses, we- there's many here on the call here- that has used, our, utilized and leveraged the community. I know I've interviewed like, say, leave Global. I've been down to Miami to see what Diego was doing firsthand and really support Alfred pay. So I think it really opened up those Dynamics. And then we're seeing other folks that are doing things as well. I mean you seen from Stellar Global, you see, for instance, what eir has is his impact that has been that he's put out throughout the community as well. We see people, let's say, like the SDF, who has been leveraging the Stellar Global community directly as well. Their Community manager is in
There. Often we see members of the engineering team that are leveraging Stellar Global Discord as well. So you know, I think it's really helped to kind of create a foundation of the culture for the community and hopefully that can spread into other endeavors. But, yeah, I'll pause there. Awesome, yeah know, I really enjoy being in there. It's also like everyone's also so like positive right, because you have like so many communities like out there on the internet and it's like you know, like, oh, like you kind of have to try it carefully because, like you know, there there's scams left and right, especially in the crypto Community. But Stellar Global, like when I was in there, like people are just so nice and like you know, and that is like really good Community Management, like fostering that culture is so important. So, yeah, definitely shout out and shout out to some people that you mentioned. Like's shout out to John, I know he's in there all the time- spintax, great. Well, speaking about Community, right, vouter,
I know that you've also been in the community for a long time. How did you get started and then how did? What was your experience in the SCF like? What stood out? Yeah, I think this idea of wanting to pay in a non custodial way and for being able to pay anyone has been in my mind for quite a long time and since I traveled to east of Asia and having to pay or transfer my money from euros into the local currency was very hard. And I found Stellar and did it by that in 2017, and then I was really in inspired and hoping for some Global ven mode to come up, and then I haven't seen it, so started it. And then, on the experience of SCF, what I think is, besides the funding and speeding up your development, what is super interesting, is that you are forced to do a lot of things, basically by taking part, so what you do is you get engagement from very
Engaged testers, so you get people that want to review what you're doing. So they give you very valuable feedback. So that's very important to us as well. So that's one. Another one is that we did this community pitch right. So, yeah, you're forced to write down what your problem is, what product you offering, so that that's good to think about. You write it down as well as part of your submission, which is good to do. You can easily fall into the Trap that, yeah, I've got it all in my mind, right, but it's good to write it down for someone else to read it. And then, finally, you have a whole network of people seeing what you build, so people can reach out to you in a very early phase and create valuable connections from that. So I think, in the experience, it's way more than just applying to get funding. It's also a process that gives you a lot of value. I think yeah, no, I think that's yeah, that, because that's also what I hear from a lot of people that like, yeah, I
Mean they, you know they need funding, like everyone needs funding to get started, to fund their development, to fund like any, like to scale their project right. But I guess, like, what people walk away with is really that experience like, let's say, like Nat fto or Diego. Does that resonate with any of you? Feel free to Che in: yeah, so for me, you know I was very- I mean- fortunate and privileged to have attended the bootcamp before joining the community and I think that was a game changer. Like you mentioned, we were very early stage when we applied and that's one thing I would say to anybody who's listening: you don't have to have like a project, or you know something that is already established, or you know it could be early stage and you can still apply right, and I always help that. I'm a non tech female founder, so I literally learned a lot during the book camp and just even in terms of just, you know, design thinking and all that right was is very great. And then joining the community. I will say that,
Similar to what w had said, you know there are people who will kick the tires around your idea and sort of challenge you, and then you have to go back and sort of look at what you're doing and say, oh, does this make sense? Or how do I solve this? Or how do I answer this, because you know that they're somewhat waiting for your response, right, so you go back to your team and you're like: okay, so what is you know? How do we solve this? Right, this is a problem and if these people are asking this question, it means other people are going to ask the question. So for me it, the community- was great that way. But, like I said, I, you know people sometimes might not apply because maybe they're worried or scared. Or for me, I, if I could apply- and you know I'm still on this panel today talking- I'll encourage anybody who's building anything on using blockchain to apply, because you never know one again, there are people in the community who are willing to help, who are willing to ask questions, who are willing to, you know, give their five cents as needed. So you can't really go wrong, right, so it all like an incubation place as well, where you're building, but there's a lot
Of safety to some degree around it where you're not just flailing by yourself all over the place. So, again, I would encourage everybody who's, you know, maybe, of two minds to definitely check it out and definitely apply. Awesome, oh, that's. I'm like really happy to hear that. Your experience as well, especially like you know, really like using it, as some like feedback, like a space, also like to develop, like it's not that you don't need to send in a, you know, completely perfect Pro product or because, well, there is nothing. Like you're always going to develop, yeah, and so like, let's say, like Diego, like I know that you've participated in SCF 9, so that was a bit more of the recent rounds where we had you know all these different like phases as well, like what did what jumped out for you and what was your experience? Our EXP experience in SCF was awesome. First and foremost,
Like I think it was fitting for. Sam to talk first, because one of our first images of seller- other than going on and reading a little bit about what Stellar does, what Sam platform through Stellar Global, so being able to dive further into Stellar Global and see some of the previous projects, what other projects on the ecosystem are building, it- really gave us. That had to start and also, we connected with Sam. I think that connecting with Sam is never a bad idea and I think that everybody here can vouch to that. But our experience for stf was great for us. We are really passionate about what we're building. Like water Comm said earlier, like the payment space today is extremely inefficient and through Stellar we're able to build that change. And one of the coolest things is that we're all. If you're applying for the SCF, the concept is that you're building a long term project, correct, like your project doesn't end right
After the Community Fund is over and what that means is that you're going to have to raise a lot of money, truthfully, but one of the cool things is that the audience here is receptive to seller- know what is knows the power of. So you get that validation from the community that is a able to fund your project and then catapult you. I mean, we've been extremely blessed post SCF and I think that this is also credit to, LEAP Global. We got into the Berkeley blockchain accelerator which, as I said, leap Global paved the way for us in that side, but all the things wouldn't have been possible without the validation of the community. So the community saw we were building, they appreciated us, they gave us that funding. It's giving us the ability to build and then it's open doors to accelerators, open networks to different investors- of folks that I look at and I'm like: how the heck did we get here in such short period amount of time, but it's
A cool thing about building. It's a cool thing about this community. As you mentioned, there's a lot of communities in crypto, but I think the cool thing about staler is that it's an open network. It enables inter interoperability, like beans is building something similar to what we're building, but the cool thing is that a beans user can send out for pay user. We can cash them out in our local country. We're an interoperable platform that really empowers entrepreneurs to collaborate together. And, yeah, and it really is most to credit to the SCF and what you and the team have built through here. So, thank you. Well, not only me, there's actually a whole group of verified members in the Stellar Community Fund that gives input and really, like, allows for that feedback, right, so shout out to our, the life force of the Stell Community Fund, our verified members. Sorry, all right, but yeah, no, that's really where that comes from. And yeah, I mean you mentioned how the that we got here. Well, I know how you got here
Through the stall Community Fund right and also through that, you did such hard work and you actually, you know, did a lot of things that set you up for success, and we're going to get that in that more detail later on. But first I wanted to hear a bit about from that, like before we dive into kind of the advice part. Nat, I know that Alfred PES mentioned you on the accelerator part as well. You started with the blockchain Berkeley accelerator, but how did you decide to go even into the Stellar Community Fund? How did you make that? Yeah, that, I guess. Yeah, switch know it's just to Echo everyone else. The community has been incredible, just fantastic, and growing every year too. I think you know when we first started, it was a little less well known with investors and other community members, but it's incredible now and especially allot of the work that Sam's been doing. He's been promoting us so much. It's been, you know, just unbelievable how much he's been over backwards to help us. So
We're very appreciative of that and you know Sam's out speaking to Davos and like promoting the work that Stellar's doing globally and that's only getting better. So it's really been an honor to be part of this community. I'd say Tori and I- Tori, co-founder of leaf- had a great time out in Meridian in Mexico and I think that was a really our first big opportunity just to see what the community looks like. And now that we're able to have more inperson events, I'd highly recommend anyone you know to attend those and a network and to see what's out there, what's building. And you know people are just supportive and helpful. It's a fantastic experience in community and so I, after leaving all those accelerators- we did a lot of accelerators- so people want advice on accelerators and bootcamps. We're happy to help, but brookley was a fantastic one and a lot of them don't come with funding. You know that's one of the downside. A lot of support. You know networks- we'll connect to investors- but when it comes to actually putting in capital, there's very few that do that and that's what was, I think, transformative for us with SCF is actually
Now leveraging some of that Capital to use and some of the early stage work that investors won't support and fund and it's all worked out for us as well. Awesome, yeah, no, that's great to hear. Yeah, because, like, you need both sides right, you need that support is like so important. But then you also need that early stage capital and sometimes it's difficult to get because investors like you actually like need to show a lot and that you've done a lot, and especially for early stage, like you know, you got to get started and SCF is like this: like you know, Kickstart funding, almost that no strings attached to don't need to pay back, you don't even need to work on your project anymore if you don't want to, we do encourage you and there is a guilt tripping if you don't do it. Just kidding from the community. But anyway, you know it's like this unique opportunity really to get funding and it's quite, yeah, you don't really see that very often, even in the blockchain ecosystem. So, well, great, it just great also to hear from your experiences. And now in the last like half
An hour or so, I really want to half well, the actually the audience really wants to know how they can improve their submission, as they're writing them right now for scf1 and this is very important. And so you've been through the process, you have worked so much on your startup and your company, right, and I really want to know now how you set yourself up for success in the SCF. So let's dive into to that, right, we start with here. I also have some audience questions and we can kind of a free flowing discussion here. But I think, like a lot of questions here actually go about the community engagement. Here, from Carlos, there's a question how to best engage with voting members of the community. So who wants to start? Yeah, I get that question a lot, you know.
I think that ultimately, you know, ultimately I feel that where people, let's say, make the biggest mistake is that you know well, number one: find something that you're passionate about. Right. I think sometimes people find you know business. You know they kind of look at the SCF as like as strictly from look I can create a job or money- the money side of it, right- And I just think that's the wrong way of looking at it, because you know, to really engage in the community, you have to be in the community. You know there's, you know, right now, in Stellar Global. There it's a different time zone for somebody, different right, you know. So it's like you know it might be 4 00 am to you, but it's 1 pm to somebody else- and etc. And so you really got to be engaged in the community. The only way you can be engaged in community is if a you're passionate about what you're trying to build. And to be passionate about something, you have
To really believe that you're solving a problem. You know, like I could, I can look at everybody here and can tell you that they've all been like actively involved in a wide range of conversations. You know we talked about liment. You know Fred is, yeah, he has liment, but then he's passionate about. You know, okay, like how is the code being built out? You know what's the know, what's, you know what's the structure are. Is the community, are these businesses? You know adhering to the centralization and some of the core components of the community. So you have to be, you know, really passionately and actively involved. And when you're involved in all these conversations and you know people are going to find you, people are gonna know who you are, they'll get to, they'll get comfortable with you. And so that way, when you do have an SCF entrance, it's like, okay, I know what you're doing, I understand you, you're actually trying to solve a problem. Now you can start building up that engagement.
So you know, that's my long winded answer for that. Yeah, I also. I wanted to add to that. I would. My advice would be to reach out early, simply because once the Community Fund is going on- let's say for the 40 days that it's going on- people are reaching out to the verified members consistently, and some of it may feel like spam, I guess, just to kind of say it bluntly, but if you're reaching out early and to different members at the end of the day, it means that you know, you're interested in connecting with these folks and the truth of the matter is that we've all been in the shoes and at least I can say it for myself- where somebody reached out to me and gave me a helping hand, like- and as I mentioned, Sam has been a great example of that- like we need the community, at the end of the day,
To believe in our projects and we're excited about what people are building, because the stronger that the Stellar network is, the stronger that our projects are. But my advice would be to reach out early to some of the verified members. If you see projects that you know correlate with some things that you're doing, reach out, ask advice and yeah, but I would, I think that the best strategy would be to reach out sooner rather than later, because once the Community Fund is going on, most of us are going through the projects themselves, reading them one by one. It's there's a good amount of projects and that might not be the greatest time to connect. So, yeah, just to Echo what Diego said, I think you definitely will get what you put into it. So you know, if you don't engage at all, it will reflect. And if you leave it too late, like he's saying, then you know you're not going to get the sort of engagement that you're looking for. So, engage sooner. And
For me, I think there are some people, and stand out when it comes to engagement, right, and even if you can just, you know, connect with those, the people that stand out right, who either give you feedback or you see them responding a lot to different people. You know I call those people the champions of the community right, because they're very engaged and so, even if you can either follow them or ask them questions, they to get a lot of reads as well. So I think you know having a strategy around that as well is also very important. Yeah, so I'm hearing here: like definitely like engage early and engage in multiple conversations, like you know, like don't like, it's not only like- Well, if you really want to maximize your chances- I think what Sam also mentions like, go in the actual like, go in Stellar developers, Discord, go in Stellar Global. Like participate in some of the overall like Stellar discussions too, if that like
Is relevant for your issue. Like I mean, in Fred's case, I know that he's been activate, active for NFTs and Stellar like so much he's in all these conversations, right, and so I think that's really exciting. Like you really get involved with the community and work on a problem that you're really passionate about. Further on, like on community engagement vouter- I know that this is another question, think that came up somewhere, but I believe you've been also really active on social media and I think that's one of the other things like not only like the Discord right, like all over. So, yeah, I would love to hear a bit more about that. Yeah, that's more my many years long enthusiasm about Stellar and its potential to change people's lives, basically so, and that gives you a lot of people that are enthusiastic about
The same thing. Right, and maybe to add to the last one is: what is engagement? Maybe that was what I was thinking- is I don't think engagement is like telling what you're building and then getting some response. I think you can- you're in a super early phase, so it's very interesting also to cut it in small pieces and get feedback from people on specific parts, so that the answer isn't very complex and also you're not really like trying to convince something, someone that you're building something cool, but just getting feedback which is already valuable, and you can do that on social media as well. I think that that's also a great way to get a lot of feedback. Basically, like, what is the engagement of the things you're building and are people excited about what you're showing them? So I think it's a great way to connect with people. Yeah, I like that aspect a lot, not just like, hey, you don't need to convinced that your product is the greatest of all time. You can actually listen
Right, listen more and listen to their feedback and show also like I mean obviously, like it has to be constructive feedback right in the communities. It can go all over the place, but if it's constructive, listen and Implement and follow up. I think that's really important. And then community members like you have a, you build your track record with them. That's very important. Yeah, I wanted to add kind of on to what Walter just said and bring back up Fred as well. Is you know Fred? You know he was, I think, disqualified from the first his first entrance into the SCF and then, when, I think, his first time going through after that, I want to say he lost the SCF before finally winning and so this is somebody who was obviously been really involved. But you know, the key is being humble. Right is the fact that you know he was humble, he kept on. He's he going? Back to what was mentioned earlier. He took feedback, came back and reiterated:
Okay, let me try to explain it in this way. Walter, somebody else who's been highly involved in the community. You know, back in the day he had, like, the Stellar torch and was really influential in the early days as far as helping to build up the whole aspect of community. But, you know, shout out to him when he was starting off his project. He didn't come in with an arrogance of like, hey, this is the best product there is. He came back exactly exact how we saying it he was giving. He was asking for a lot of feedback. You know, here's a screenshot. What do you think of this? So it was this active engagement from somebody who's- you know, I would say, understands the network very well, has a long history within the community, but he still came out and did the work and that goes a long way. And so, yeah, just want to reiterate the importance of just being humble and really engaging and getting feedback from people and being genuine about it. Yeah,
I think that's really like how you really built that track record. I think it's not just a one Stop Shop, right. It's really like you can actually also submit multiple times to the SCF. Like you can start with a small budget and kind of get your foot in the door, ask for lots of feedback, even if your project is not quite finished yet, and then next time you can ask for more and kind of like show that you've implemented the feedback. So, yeah, especially with Fred, like enlightment, like it's quite interesting to see, like that, like the many times like they submitted, didn't win, but submitted again anyway. Right, and not only does that show a track record for the community, it also shows it for, like you know, SDF, whenever we have grants, right, oh, this Pro, this project, really wants to be part of the sell ecosystem, like they. It's like a qualifier, almost so definitely. I think that is really great to just keep going, ask for feedback and stay humble. Great advice, Nat. I see that you have
Your mic unmuted. I wanted to hear a have more from you about what your advice is to just quickly: no, I think it's all been said well and, yeah, I think there's no matter what you're building, somebody's already, you know, done something similar or solved a lot of your problems and I think we found a lot of support and resources. Certainly for the wallet business. There's a lot of those instellar. So if it's groups like Lobstr or one called rehive in South Africa that we were able to connect with early on to get advice and also to share back, you know, I think we were one of the few that had Incorporated USSD technology and we're able to kind of share sort of best practices, what's worked and what hasn't, or if there's other on andof ramps that we've had more success with, I think there's, you know, plenty to give back to. But I also feel like this is maybe an area that we could have done more with. I think the challenge that we had with our wallet is not a lot of our users are, you know, online on the internet. So it was tough to get, least you know, feedback from anyone within the Stellar
Community about our wallet because they couldn't download and use it, and I think that hurt us a little bit compared to some others that could say: look, this is the feedback, this is how we've engaged the community. This is some of the things that we've Incorporated. So I definitely think we could have done a better job earlier on re engaging with the community. So we've gotten so much support since then. But, yeah, I was definitely one I think could have strengthened our application. Yeah, I guess that's also like points out that there so such a wide variety in project and yeah, sometimes like maybe like beans, for example, you're having, like you know, you can really find your users in the community, but in other cases, like your value, like feed, feedback is going to be a bit different. So, yeah, I mean, and as that you were also talking a bit about, you know that- user validation and you've been working on Leaf Global for a while. What is some other advice that you would give to like new submitters to put in their submission? Sure- and this is, I think, something
That helps set us apart a little bit- and also with fundraising too, is just going from that idea to like a handful of you know test users, or just something real, theoretical, to actually like moving money and getting real live users and processing transactions. I think that is a huge hurdle to do and it's tough to get. The you know regulation, the licensing, the partners being able to move funds, getting KYC right, like there's a ton involved there. Going from zero to one is a big heavy lift. I think that it might just been timing that we were lucky with that, with our applications, that we finally got over some of those hurdles after like five or six false starts and, you know, get things going and then it would shut down and then another partner would get shut down, starting with another. So just the startup life. But I think that is really key to be able to articulate that. I feel like that really helped us a bit is like this is more than an idea. We've got you know at the time, I think five or 6 thousand customers that were processing you know 100 000 plus transactions.
Like we actually had good data on the flow and you could see it all was all on the Stellar explorer. So like that was fun to be able to then show is like we're actually opening accounts for people are using it. This is how the flows are, and so trying to get to that step as early as you can, I think helps. Yes, user validation, numbers, data like show data to convince like you don't like U. You can prove that your product works right, especially on, I mean, Stellar right? I mean, yeah, you can see it on StellarExpert. Like it's all recorded. You can't even fake it right. So I think that's really exciting. So I think that's a really great lesson for people. It's like you know, do your homework, get user validation early, like show what you've done, like prove your track record. I think, even if it's, as you know, little as just a few people like, if a few people really like your project and you know you're in early stage, there's a big chance that a lot of people will right. So, yeah, let's see
Who has anything to add to that like numbers, and how did you get to those numbers? Like, what are some like advice that you would give anyone here? Feel free to chip in. You see some people unmuting. I I'll add to that because I think that that's something that we've actually been dealing with recently and I love that point of getting from zero to one of the best advice that we got recently was that when your product launches, it should suck, and that's okay, because part of it is understanding what's not working, what is working and so on. So one of our biggest priorities as of late has been exiting beta and getting the product in the hands of people to see what's actually working, what's not working, what users like, what they don't like, and someone like me who's like details of like, every like. No, this has to
Be like two fonts smaller and it has to be in this corner instead of this one. To it has brought some like Perfection paralysis, I guess, to what we've been so focused and excited on building. But I'm just so excited to get this in the hands of people like we recently launched our anchor in our exiting beta, October 1st, and if I wouldn't have gotten that advice, which is exactly what Nat is pointing at, we would probably still be so paralyzed in the process of getting everything right. And it's understanding that your product is never going to be perfect in this stage, and that's why we're here. You know that there's no better Community to rely on feedback than this community, so I just wanted to add those points to that. Yes, so you're hearing, your project should suck if you're submitted to the SCF. No, but I mean that that's obviously. I think that's a really great piece of feedback and that's what I've been hearing too. Like it doesn't need to be perfect the first time. Your MVP should be like super, like simple, super like
Basic. Doesn't need to be perfect, don't over engineer and just get it in front of people. I think that's great advice. Let me see we have a. Anyone wants to add to that before we go into next section? Right, no, so the project isak. Very good advice. I love that. But obviously we're here to make it better, like, and it's always going to be re like iterative and you can even work, as was mentioned here, partner with companies, like make it better, like there's new opportunities if you just get it out in front of people. We have a question here from John Woodard and this goes a bit more into the demos and kind of like graphics and whatnot. So what sort of like demos are expected and what are the? What are some advice that some of the panelists would give around this. I
Mean, oh, go ahead, Walter. Yeah, what I would say is that I don't know if there's any expectances. It depends on what you're building. But what I would say is that be careful to look at design. No matter what you do. If it's not your presentation or if you're building a consumer facing product, at least take a look at your design. If you don't have a designer in your team, find someone that can help you. Even if you do it through, I don't know, Fiverr or something. Make sure that it stands out, it looks good, but also use it to structure what you're building, because if you go through design process, you will run into challenges. It will improve your product, but it will also make it easier to explain to people why what you're building is unique. So I would say, no matter what you do and what you show, be careful to take a look at design as well. Make look good.
Yeah, making it look good is very important. I think, like a lot of people like- including me, like we like verifi members read a lot of submissions and it's nice to actually see some visual assets. And I know beans you did that really well. Beans actually had a really great demo. Unfortunately, my Discord recording skills weren't as good so I cannot reproduce, but definitely the next candidate pitches we should be all set on that. Let me see like I actually you know like the design was really good on all of these the project panelist that are here and definitely check it out on the project site, on seller Community Fund website. Let me see. Because I offered pay, I also really liked your designs as well. Did you do any? I was actually gonna gon to mention exactly what you of that. The cool thing is that you're able to go through some of the previous projects that are winners
And see what they put together. And that's something that we did for sure before we submit our application was go through some of the previous winners, see what they had done and, to L point, I think design is important, one of the things that we did and ultimately, as we said, the whole concept with our projects is to exit out of the Community Fund stage and, you know, to grow them. So you're eventually going to have to build out a pitch Teck and a lot of the questions that come out of the Community Fund are questions that you need to have in your pitch check. So what's the problem that you're going after? What's the solution? So maybe even uploading that slide from your pitch deck to give it a graphic that maybe adds a little bit of twist of what your brand is, what your product does, etc. Might allow to, might allow you to stick out versus other projects, because when you're going, when you when there's so many applications that are just all text, it can be pretty hard
To just to go through so many, whereas maybe you see like, wow, these people have a really cool brand, they have a really cool way of communicating this to others and it's something that that'll stick out. So definitely go through the previous winners on the Community Fund site and see what they've done. As IA said, beans did a great job as well. So definitely go through them and take a look and use them for reference. Yeah, may maybe to add one thing is that the pitch which we did, that wasn't recorded. What really helped us is to pre record our demo. So what we did is did a live demo, pre record it and then talk over it during the pitch, so that you you're not focused on clicking all the buttons and all things that can go wrong during a live demo. So I think that helped a lot to prere Rec it and then put it in the slides. Yeah, that was actually a legit presentation.
Like we were like everyone who was watching, like Tyler, like everyone on my team was like whoa, like pre record like this is like because everything obviously went well right. It's like you were, you looked like you were doing Livewire and we were like really impressed. But yeah know, it's like a. Those are like some great tactics too. Let me see we have a few minutes here and I want to go onto some other questions as well. So another question I get often is: what's the best strategy for the grant amount and I know that you know we've actually changed budget guidelines quite a bit throughout the SCF rounds. Right now, like we maximum amount is 200k and but we have different projects like of different budget Scopes, like depending on the project scope. So like we have like beneath like 10 000 for small scope projects, beneath under like 50
000 worth of XLM for kind of medium scope projects that are really like for new project, but also we have under U 200 000 which is really like people, that of existing companies that want to scale a new product or like Kickstart a new development on that front. So yeah, here it says what is the best strategy to kind of get in for into the Stellar Community Fund and I know that quid, like I know that you haven't had any previous can really experience right in the Stellar community and you chose a little bit of a lower a budget on the lower end? Can you tell us a bit more about your strategy there? Sure, so I mean, when we applied we just needed or were looking for funding to even just build right, so we were looking for funding for Developers for maybe a bit of a marketing campaign, and so we, I think we did less than 50 000 if I remember correctly.
Yes, and you know, based on advice as well, you know, just looking at what other people had done, and I mean, first of all, not to just deviate, but can I just do and can I just brag on? But can I just do and can I just brag on anchor, because I'm telling you, look, if she's on your corner, you are made right, so let me just quickly brag on her and just say that everything she said we should do, we did right so. But there was a lot of advice around. You know how to sort of what to do and everything. And she has been such a phenomenal support and just supporter of just our. You know our product, what we're trying to build, the vision and everything. So, just going back to your to answer your question, so again, we asked for a smaller amount and we actually got it. And I'll say even now, when everybody's talking about. We've been very misly with even those funds right, because we're using it to, we're able to pay for developers. We were able to do some marketing campaign, like I said, and we still have some left that we're still, you know, managing right, and so it's just been phenomenal
With just what we've been trying to do. And so anybody who's coming in, unless you already have like an established product or something that already has like a lot of traction, I would say, start small and you know, SCF, the beauty of the fund is that you don't just get it one time and you're shut out. You know you can always come back. Like everybody has said, once you able to prove the concept and you know get more traction, you can come back and ask for maybe higher amount and so don't feel like you have to ask for the moon first, go around. You know, if you know, ask for what you need, but make it manageable enough that it within the community would be able to say okay, yeah, this is, this makes sense. Yeah, I think that that's great advice also to really get your foot in theuring and get traction and just build that and you can always submit again. Right, all right, well, we actually like the time flies like it's already almost done and anyone here? Any last advice for scf1 submitters:
Feel free to unmute. Yeah, just have fun, you know. I mean there's a lot of great opportunities out there. I think there's the. I mean, since all of us have entered, there have been continual upgrades, continuous new countries that have been really expanding their use cases, and so just be creative, have fun and do it. Yeah, I think that's a great point. Just don't only do it to win the funding, but just have fun, get feedback, interact with people, improve, use it to write down whatever you're building, validate your ID. So I think that's very valuable already. So, yeah, great Point. Yeah, I would also chime in and say, well, sorry about that. I would also Chim in and say: don't leave it till the last
Minute to fill out your submission. Right, start working on it now so that you can sort of- you know, kick the tires around it, you know, let people around you sort of look at it, read it, give you feedback, put that in the in your submission and then just to make it as Crisp And as great as it can potentially be. Thanks, going to say something similar, I feel like it's: the standards have got a lot higher since we went in, so up. Your game, the professionalism of the, you know, of the applications, have gotten so much better. But, that being said, yeah, there's nothing to lose by just applying and getting some great feedback and, especially if you're new to the community, Jump Right In. It's really a supportive one and I I'll add that if you don't win one time or two times, keep applying, because I think that a large part of being a Founder is grit and being relentless. So the community loves to see two, three time people who apply
And I think that has a lot of value. So, yeah, thank you so much everyone for that advice. I think that's. Yeah, it's was really great to hear from all of you and really got into the examples of, like you know, the generic advice that we give all the time. Yes, that's true, our application has become a little bit more complicated, but that's a good exercise for you to l write down your business. You know I'm trying to. Yeah, we're trying to streamline it every round. The stf changes every now round because we grow with the needs of the community and the growing Stellar ecosystem, which is really exciting. We're also having some, you know, sneak peek. We're having some really exciting updates for scf2 that I'll be sharing in the next few weeks. So definitely stay tuned, but in the meantime, if you want to keep up to date with this and learn more about the Stell Community Fund. We have an exciting like website that we recently renewed. Shout out to Charles from
Our design team. It's very great. It's called a `communityfund.stellar.org` so definitely check out and check out the projects the our panelists here and many more exciting projects that have in the past submitted to SCF. We, as mentioned here, we have a exciting stallo Community Fund, Discord, where you can find many of these of our panelist- actually all panelists here- and many more on Discord and ask questions and whatnot, and we have recently also added an SF handbook. So if you're like, really want to know the details of how everything works, definitely check that out. You can find it on `communityfund.stellar.org` and it will answer most, if not all, of your questions. And then we also post a regular updates in our Stellar Community medium, so definitely check all of those out. It's 2011. Thank you so much to everyone here participating. It was great to hear from you
And I look forward to everyone's submissions to scf1- awesome. Well, thank you so much everyone.